## Hi there 👋

My name is Kacper. I am currently a CS (computer science) graduate (bachelor studies) with the intent to complete the studies with Master title.

## Intrests:
1. 3D Graphics & GameDev - I briefly worked at a GameDev company, assisting in Unity game development. I'm interested in creating small, low-level 3D game engines / demos in C++ (CMake, GLFW, Glad, STB, GLM, etc.) with the potential to scale up for commercial use. The last feature I implemented, when I had time, was 3D PBR rendering with IBL baking enabled (although it needs some work on the IBL probes). I still intend to add new rendering features when I have more time. I also developed a small game (Quoridor) in the terminal with full TUI support (using arrows as input), colors, and a per-input refresh rate for a university project. I'm currently working on a new 3D networking game prototype, combining my interest in networking and graphics programming (and looking to monetize the game as a service). GameDev is an interesting niche, combining knowledge of math, physics, and computer science with the potential to apply low-level systems.
   
2. Systems and Network Administration - I took an elective in systems administration and fell in love with managing custom server racks. I have worked with old Dell/HP servers, configured iDRAC and hardware RAIDs on the platform, and installed Linux. I connected multiple old Cisco switches, set up ports, stacking, VLANs, 802.1X, and some security, and connected the Cisco access switches with the configured Linux server, which served as a software router with DNS, DHCP, RADIUS, VRRP + Keepalived services, and enabled firewall rules. I connected other workstations to the network (and VLANs) and ensured that connecting a new workstation with an Ethernet cable automatically assigned an IPv4 within the VLAN address range, depending on the switch's Ethernet port used, and was able to connect to the network's AD (not configured by me). It was a very informative and interesting course. Besides attending the system administration course, I also took a cloud engineering course, working closely with Google Cloud Platform (GCP). I am ready for deploying both on-premises and in the cloud (and, of course, in hybrid environments). I also completed a course in network (socket) programming.

3. Embedded programming and OS development - Having worked with/used Cisco switches, I got interested in making my own custom L2+ networking switch. I've prepared a small project for a custom 8-port L2 switch. I have designed a PCB schematic using multiple ICs (Microchip networking switch chip with integrated MIPS CPU, DDR3L RAM, and power delivery (buck converters, LDOs, voltage supervisors, power jacks, etc.)), with the potential to further integrate a Lattice/Microchip FPGA for custom L3 features. I am in the process of designing the actual PCB Layout in KiCAD. Also, having been interested in x86 architecture, assembler, and having worked on an Arduino project with an RTOS for university, I am confident that I would eventually make custom software for my new switch.

4. Cybsersecurity - Having worked with vulnerable C/C++ applications and the language itself, and taking into account my existing OS, network, and low-level knowledge, this is another domain where I can apply my expertise. I have experimented with cracking Active Directory (AD) security using existing tools and CVEs, and also with the security of my apps/web apps, and learned a great deal. I wrote a small GUI application in Java (Wireshark-like) as a wrapper for the libpcap library for a university project. My bachelor thesis was on designing an AI model capable of deep packet inspection (or at least of parsing the metadata in the headers) and classifying network flow packets as malicious or not. I have prepared the matchmaking server for my upcoming game for managing gamers' profiles and doing NAT punch-through or relaying (WIP), and also implemented anti-cheat measures in the game server. Working on the university's server rack project and the cloud project gave me some thoughts on properly securing the environment/services.
 
When the mood or need strikes, I can and will design a quick, provisional app/web app/script depending on the requirements. I have designed two quick web apps that can be extended: a to-do app (Trello-like) and a documents app (Google Docs-like), as well as some shell scripts for quick automation.

## Languages:
 - C/C++ (both structural and objective style and conventions)
 - Java (Done some uni projects in Java)
 - C# (I have worked some time with Unity game engine and learned its limitations)
 - Some JS and PHP (I have implemented a website from already made graphical concept passed to me into an actual HTML ready webstie and have made it interactive)
 - Looking forward to learning Zig as a new low-level memory-safe language once it becomes stable

## Projects/Programms (WIP List of all my projects):
1. SEVEN - SEVEN is a 3D Game Engine made in C++ for the purposes of learing the rendering techniques and game optimization. I started this project after expirementing with Unity, when I noticed at least few things that broke developer experience for me. Also big engines such as Unreal Engine or Unity tend to have problems with optmisation (either the effectiveness (or max extent) of the process or the ease and intuitiveness of the process. For me it was good opportunity to learn some rendering techniques and Math/Physics models while also maintaing absolute control in carefully utilizing API Calls, Memory allocations, libraries. My mistakes while learning OpenGL made me realise that debugging GFX is hard and using only debugger is not enough. I learned to use Renderdoc (API/GFX Debugger) and Tracy for timing my bottlenecks. Because I am not a fan of overuse of external libraries and bloat I tried to minimise them and only pick those really neccessary. Besides rendering it was fun to implment some non-trivial input detection (one of the many pain points of Unity - older versions) and abstractions/architecture over it. I intend to come back one day to the engine development and implement full-fledged GUI Editor in ImGUI, so the Engine could be properly and easily used, and also to make many improvements.
KEYWORDS: C++, CMake, GLFW, GLAD, STB, GLM, Renderdoc, Tracy, ImGUI, 3D Rendering, PBR, IBL, Phong model

2. DT (working title) - DT is new upcoming (game) title, developed by me in Unity with some collaborators, currently in the prototyping stage. DT is 3D multiplayer asymmetrical horror-survival game (competing with Dead By Daylight and similair to Evil Dead The Game or Texas Chainsaw Massacre Game). As of now (11/2025) the core of the game is nearing completition, and next year (2026) I will be moving to testing phase. If the games proves to be interesting and successful, I intent to put all my time and effort into it and maybe monetize it (so no upstreaming the repo this time) and sell on Steam. This game has shown me that GitHub's free git LFS storage quota is really small and so self-hosting your own VM with local Gitea server (and CI/CD action runner) and ZeroTier (VLAN) with collaborators is really a necessity. This game was an opportunity to use newer Unity engine versions and apply some new time-saving features.

3. DT's matchmaking and relay server - the game requires external dedicated server for matchmaking (saving match/player's state, inventory, currency) and NAT/Relay for P2P connections. I am currently in the process (11/2025) of writing this server in C++ and applying network programming knowledge. The main role of the server is to start P2P connection with all of the players using NAT punching or UPnP proocol and relaying traffic if neccessary. The next priorities is to implement different queues with wait times and some algorythms for matching people together based on skill (some MMR variant) or geo-location (based on ping). Also i am wondering if I can forward the log of player's action and analyse it in hope of learning the skill level or checking if the players tried to cheat (behaved unusually or malliciouslly) either by checking some rules (parsing and estimating) or creating the AI model for these tasks. This repo can be later upstremed for select users, wanting to self-host custom matchmaking servers for tight communities or e-sport purposes or if I should abandon this game.

4. Pome - this webapp was created as a fully free (no restrictions on user count, project count, task count etc) planner - Trello/Clickup alternative. The frontend was made using VueJS and TailwindCSS. The backend utilized NestJS framework for backend purposes with the GraphQL connection to MongoDB NoSQL database. By choosing GraphQL over REST API i could use subscriptions to dynamically refresh the user's dashboards. This project took 2 months to implement the board and list view. If this project should become needed by me I could implement more views (Timeline or calendar) and add AD/LDAP user management.
KEYWORDS: JS, Node.js, NestJS, VueJS, TailwindCSS, MongoDB, GraphQL, planner, Trello

5. GameDocs - this webapp was created a Google docs alternative. The frontend was made using VueJS and TailwindCSS. The backend utilized NestJS framework for backend purposes connected to MongoDB database. This project took 2-3 months to implement. Like in my planner project, I could implement AD/LDAP user management and use AI to supercharge user's experience. Used this project to learn and apply VueJS and NestJS frameworks. Initially I intended to use this tool for quick dialogue creation for NPCs and to integrate this with my game engine, but it was postponed.
